
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
GENERAL.
Embracing Microsoft's Future.
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. Microsoft strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Microsoft's platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity.
Microsoft continue to transform Microsoft's business to lead in the new era of the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge. Microsoft bring technology and products together into experiences and solutions that unlock value for Microsoft's customers. In this next phase of innovation, computing is more powerful and ubiquitous from the cloud to the edge. Artificial intelligence (“AI”) capabilities are rapidly advancing, fueled by data and knowledge of the world. Physical and virtual worlds are coming together with the Internet of Things (“IoT”) and mixed reality to create richer experiences that understand the context surrounding people, the things they use, the places they go, and their activities and relationships. A person’s experience with technology spans a multitude of devices and has become increasingly more natural and multi-sensory with voice, ink, and gaze interactions.
What Microsoft Offer.
Founded in 1975, Microsoft develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Microsoft offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and Microsoft provide solution support and consulting services. Microsoft also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience.
Microsoft's products include operating systems; cross-device productivity applications; server applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; and video games. Microsoft also design, manufacture, and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
PART I.
Item 1.
The.
Ambitions.
That.
Drive.
Us.
To achieve Microsoft's vision, Microsoft's research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions:.
Reinvent productivity and business processes.
Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform.
Create more personal computing.
Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes.
Microsoft are in a unique position to empower people and organizations to succeed in a rapidly evolving workplace. Computing experiences are evolving, no longer bound to one device at a time. Instead, experiences are expanding to many devices as people move from home to work to on the go. These modern needs, habits, and expectations of Microsoft's customers are motivating us to bring Microsoft Office 365, Windows platform, devices, including Microsoft Surface, and third-party applications into a more cohesive Microsoft 365 experience.
Microsoft's growth depends on securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing Microsoft's leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Office, Microsoft Dynamics, and LinkedIn. Microsoft 365 brings together Office 365, Windows 10, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees with AI-backed tools that unlock creativity, increase teamwork, and fuel innovation, all the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams is core to Microsoft's vision for the modern workplace as the digital hub that creates a single canvas for teamwork, conversations, meetings, and content. Microsoft Relationship Sales solution brings together LinkedIn Sales Navigator and Dynamics to transform business to business sales through social selling. Dynamics 365 for Talent with LinkedIn Recruiter and Learning gives human resource professionals a complete solution to compete for talent. Microsoft Power Platform empowers employees to build custom applications, automate workflow, and analyze data no matter their technical expertise.
These scenarios represent a move to unlock creativity and inspire teamwork, while simplifying security and management. Organizations of all sizes can now digitize business-critical functions, redefining what customers can expect from their business applications. This creates an opportunity for us to reach new customers and increase usage and engagement with existing customers.
Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge.
Platform.
Companies are looking to use digital technology to fundamentally reimagine how they empower their employees, engage customers, optimize their operations, and change the very core of their products and services. Partnering with organizations on their digital transformation is one of Microsoft's largest opportunities and Microsoft are uniquely positioned to become the strategic digital transformation platform and partner of choice.
Microsoft's strategy requires continued investment in datacenters and other hybrid and edge infrastructure to support Microsoft's services. Microsoft Azure is a trusted cloud with comprehensive compliance coverage and AI-based security built in.
Microsoft's cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs.
As one of the two largest providers of cloud computing at scale, Microsoft believe Microsoft work from a position of strength. Being a global-scale cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. Microsoft see more emerging use cases and needs for compute and security at the edge and are accelerating Microsoft's innovation across the spectrum of intelligent edge devices, from IoT sensors to gateway devices and edge hardware to build, manage, and secure edge workloads. With Azure Stack, organizations can extend Azure into their own datacenters to create a consistent stack across the public cloud and the intelligent edge. Microsoft's hybrid infrastructure consistency spans identity, data, compute, management, and security, helping to support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial customers and enterprises. Microsoft are accelerating Microsoft's development of mixed reality solutions, with new Azure services and devices such as HoloLens 2. The opportunity to merge the physical and digital worlds, when combined with the power of Azure cloud services, unlocks the potential for entirely new workloads which Microsoft believe will shape the next era of computing.
PART I.
Item 1.
The ability to convert data into AI drives Microsoft's competitive advantage. Azure SQL Database makes it possible for customers to take.
Microsoft.
SQL Server from their on-premises datacenter to a fully managed instance in the cloud to utilize built-in AI. Microsoft are accelerating adoption of AI innovations from research to products. Microsoft's innovation helps every developer be an AI developer, with approachable new tools from Azure Machine Learning Studio for creating simple machine learning models, to the powerful Azure Machine Learning Workbench for the most advanced AI modeling and data science.
On October 25, 2018, Microsoft completed Microsoft's acquisition of GitHub, Inc. (“GitHub”), a service that millions of developers around the world rely on to write code together. The acquisition is expected to empower developers to achieve more at every stage of the development lifecycle, accelerate enterprise use of GitHub, and bring Microsoft’s developer tools and services to new audiences.
Create More Personal Computing.
Microsoft strive to make computing more personal by putting users at the core of the experience, enabling them to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. In support of this, Microsoft are bringing Office, Windows, and devices together for an enhanced and more cohesive customer experience.
Windows 10 continues to gain traction in the enterprise as the most secure and productive operating system. It empowers people with AI-first interfaces ranging from voice-activated commands through Cortana, inking, immersive 3D content storytelling, and mixed reality experiences. Windows also plays a critical role in fueling Microsoft's cloud business and Microsoft 365 strategy, and it powers the growing range of devices on the “intelligent edge.” Microsoft's ambition for Windows 10 monetization opportunities includes gaming, services, subscriptions, and search advertising.
Microsoft are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem. Microsoft recently expanded Microsoft's Surface family of devices with the Surface Hub 2S, which brings together Microsoft Teams, Windows, and Surface hardware to power teamwork for organizations.
Microsoft are mobilizing to pursue Microsoft's expansive opportunity in the gaming industry, broadening Microsoft's approach to how Microsoft think about gaming end-to-end, from the way games are created and distributed to how they are played and viewed. Microsoft have a strong position with Microsoft's Xbox One console, Microsoft's large and growing highly engaged community of gamers on Xbox Live, and with Windows 10, the most popular operating system for PC gamers. Microsoft will continue to connect Microsoft's gaming assets across PC, console, and mobile, and work to grow and engage the Xbox Live member network more deeply and frequently with services like Mixer and Xbox Game Pass. Microsoft's approach is to enable gamers to play the games they want, with the people they want, on the devices they want.
Microsoft's Future Opportunity.
Customers are looking to us to accelerate their own digital transformations and to unlock new opportunity in this era of intelligent cloud and intelligent edge. Microsoft continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for Microsoft's customers that empower users to be creative and work together while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Microsoft's goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the long-term, which Microsoft expect will translate to sustained growth. Microsoft are investing significant resources in:.
Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications to improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, play, and interact with one another.
Building and running cloud-based services in ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.
Applying AI to drive insights and act on Microsoft's customer’s behalf by understanding and interpreting their needs using natural methods of communication.
Using Windows to fuel Microsoft's cloud business and Microsoft 365 strategy, and to develop new categories of devices – both Microsoft's own and third-party – on the intelligent edge.
Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming by creating the next wave of entertainment.
PART I.
Item 1.
Microsoft's future growth depends on Microsoft's ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions. Microsoft have the opportunity to redefine what customers and partners can expect and are working to deliver new solutions that reflect the best of Microsoft.
OPERATING SEGMENTS.
Microsoft operate Microsoft's business and report Microsoft's financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Microsoft's segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of Microsoft's key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses.
Additional information on Microsoft's operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 20 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Microsoft's reportable segments are described below.
Productivity and Business Processes.
Microsoft's Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in Microsoft's portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises:.
Office Commercial, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”).
Office Consumer, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive.
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions.
Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, a set of cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM, Dynamics ERP on-premises, and Dynamics CRM on-premises.
Office Commercial.
Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on Microsoft's ability to reach new usersin new markets such as first-line workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value to Microsoft's core product and service offerings to span productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365. CALs provide certain Office Commercial products and services with access rights to Microsoft's server products and CAL revenue is reported with the associated Office products and services.
Office Consumer.
Office Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on Microsoft's ability to reach new users, add value to Microsoft's core product set, and continue to expand Microsoft's product and service offerings into new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365. Office Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes.
PART I.
Item 1.
LinkedIn.
LinkedIn connects the world's professionals to make them more productive and successful, and is the world's largest professional network on the Internet. LinkedIn offers services that can be used by customers to transform the way they hire, market, sell, and learn. In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers three categories of monetized solutions: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions, which includes Sales Solutions. Talent Solutions is comprised of two elements: Hiring, and Learning and Development. Hiring provides services to recruiters that enable them to attract, recruit, and hire talent. Learning and Development provides subscriptions to enterprises and individuals to access online learning content. Marketing Solutions enables companies to advertise to LinkedIn’s member base. Premium Subscriptions enables professionals to manage their professional identity, grow their network, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search. Premium Subscriptions also includes Sales Solutions, which helps sales professionals find, qualify, and create sales opportunities and accelerate social selling capabilities. Growth will depend on Microsoft's ability to increase the number of LinkedIn members and Microsoft's ability to continue offering services that provide value for Microsoft's members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue is mainly affected by demand from enterprises and professional organizations for subscriptions to Talent Solutions and Premium Subscriptions offerings, as well as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content delivered to those members to drive Marketing Solutions.
On November 16, 2018, LinkedIn acquired Glint, an employee engagement platform, to expand its Talent Solutions offerings.
Dynamics.
Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications.
Competition.
Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Facebook, Google, IBM, Okta, Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as well as local application developers. Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and cloud phone solutions. Skype for Business and Skype also compete with a variety of instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups to established enterprises. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves as alternatives to Microsoft's products and services. Microsoft compete by providing powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies Microsoft's customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud.
LinkedIn faces competition from online recruiting companies, talent management companies, and larger companies that are focusing on talent management and human resource services; job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that provide learning and development products and services. Marketing Solutions competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers.
Dynamics competes with vendors such as Infor, NetSuite, Oracle, Salesforce.com, SAP, and The Sage Group to provide cloud-based and on-premise business solutions for small, medium, and large organizations.
PART I.
Item 1.
Intelligent Cloud.
Microsoft's Intelligent Cloud segment consists of Microsoft's public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business. This segment primarily comprises:.
Server products and cloud services, including SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs, GitHub, and Azure.
Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services.
Server Products and Cloud Services.
Microsoft's server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. Microsoft also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. GitHub provides a collaboration platform and code hosting service for developers. Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights to certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue is reported along with the associated server product.
Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device. Customers can use Azure through Microsoft's global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, IoT, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services, and per user-based services such as Enterprise Mobility + Security.
Enterprise Services.
Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products.
Competition.
Microsoft's server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux.
Microsoft compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with Microsoft's enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for Microsoft's server applications for PC-based distributed client-server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Microsoft's web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, Microsoft compete against Java vendors.
Microsoft's database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Microsoft's system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Microsoft's products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails.
PART I.
Item 1.
Microsoft believe Microsoft's server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.
Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce.com, VMware, and open source offerings. Microsoft's Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors. Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with Microsoft's public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. Microsoft believe Microsoft's cloud’s global scale, coupled with Microsoft's broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for Microsoft's customers and differentiates us from the competition.
Microsoft's Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies.
More Personal Computing.
Microsoft's More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services geared towards harmonizing the interests of end users, developers, and IT professionals across all devices. This segment primarily comprises:.
Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows IoT; and MSN advertising.
Devices, including Surface, PC accessories,and other intelligent devices.
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox software and services, comprising Xbox Live transactions, subscriptions, cloud services, and advertising (“Xbox Live”), video games, and third-party video game royalties.
Search.
Windows.
The Windows operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by:.
The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.
Differences in device market demand between developed markets and growth markets.
Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.
Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large enterprises.
Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel.
Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.
Constraints in the supply chain of device components.
Piracy.
Windows Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing of the Windows operating systemand Windows cloud services such as Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection, is affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and Software Assurance (“SA”), as well as advanced security offerings. Windows Commercial revenue often reflects the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year.
PART I.
Item 1.
Patent licensing includes Microsoft's programs to license patents Microsoft own for use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud offerings.
Windows IoT extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services for use in embedded devices.
MSN advertising includes both native and display ads.
Devices.
Microsoft design, manufacture, and sell devices, including Surface, PC accessories, and other intelligent devices. Microsoft's devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services. Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be more productive.
Gaming.
Microsoft's gaming platform is designed to provide a unique variety of entertainment using Microsoft's devices, peripherals, applications, online services, and content. Microsoft released Xbox One S and Xbox One X in August 2016 and November 2017, respectively. With the launch of the Mixer service in May 2017, offering interactive live streaming, and Xbox Game Pass in June 2017, providing unlimited access to over 100 Xbox titles, Microsoft continue to open new opportunities for customers to engage both on- and off-console.
With Microsoft's acquisition of PlayFab in January 2018, Microsoft enable worldwide game developers to utilize game services, LiveOps, and analytics for player acquisition, engagement, and retention. Microsoft have also made these services available for developers outside of the gaming industry.
Xbox Live enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences and is accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox Live is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit Microsoft's developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base. Xbox Live revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of Xbox Live enabled content, as well as advertising. Microsoft also continue to design and sell gaming content to showcase Microsoft's unique platform capabilities for Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Growth of Microsoft's Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox Live enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access Microsoft's content and services, and the ability to create new experiences via online services including game streaming, downloadable content, and peripherals.
Search.
Microsoft's Search business, including Bing and Microsoft Advertising, is designed to deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. Microsoft have several partnerships with other companies, including Verizon Media Group, through which Microsoft provide and monetize search queries. Growth depends on Microsoft's ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings.
Competition.
Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. Microsoft believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity.
Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across various price points. These manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers, include Apple and Microsoft's Windows OEMs.
PART I.
Item 1.
Microsoft's gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendoand.
Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five to ten years. Nintendo released its latest generation console in March 2017 and Sony released its latest generation console in November 2013. Microsoft also compete with other providers of entertainment services through online marketplaces. Microsoft believe Microsoft's gaming platform is effectively positioned against competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from Microsoft's own game franchises as well as other digital content offerings. Microsoft's video games competitors include Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard. Xbox Live and Microsoft's cloud gaming services face competition from various online marketplaces, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, and Google.
Microsoft's search business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users.
OPERATIONS.
Microsoft have operations centers that support operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, Microsoft also operate datacenters throughout the Americas, Europe, Australia, and Asia, as well as in the Middle East and Africa.
To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, Microsoft localize many of Microsoft's products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text.
Microsoft's devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. Microsoft generally have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet Microsoft's requirements.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
Product and Service Development, and Intellectual Property.
Microsoft develop most of Microsoft's products and services internally through the following engineering groups.
Cloud and AI focuses on making IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient through development of cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, management and development tools, AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for enterprises.
Experiences and Devices, focuses on instilling a unifying product ethos across Microsoft's end-user experiences and devices, including Office, Windows, Enterprise Mobility and Management, and Surface.
AI and Research, focuses on Microsoft's AI innovations and other forward-looking research and development efforts spanning infrastructure, services, applications, and search.
LinkedIn, focuses on Microsoft's services that transform the way customers hire, market, sell, and learn. .
Gaming, focuses on connecting gaming assets across the range of devices to grow and engage the Xbox Live member network through game experiences, streaming content, and social interaction.
Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over Microsoft's products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. Microsoft strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and as Microsoft make significant modifications to existing platforms, Microsoft provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, Microsoft also create product documentation internally.
PART I.
Item 1.
Microsoft protect Microsoft's intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. Microsoft work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to Microsoft's software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. Microsoft are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over.
61,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over.
26,000 pending. While Microsoft employ much of Microsoft's internally-developed intellectual property exclusively in Microsoft's products and services, Microsoft also engage in outbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products. From time to time, Microsoft enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. Microsoft also purchase or license technology that Microsoft incorporate into Microsoft's products and services. At times, Microsoft make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, or attracting and enabling Microsoft's external development community.
Microsoft's increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license Microsoft's intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations.
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of Microsoft's products, services, and business methods, Microsoft believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Microsoft believe Microsoft's continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of Microsoft's products.
Investing in the Future.
Microsoft's success is based on Microsoft's ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for Microsoft's users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of Microsoft's products and services. Microsoft invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that Microsoft believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to Microsoft's customers and growth for the Company. Based on Microsoft's assessment of key technology trends, Microsoft maintain Microsoft's long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems.
While Microsoft's main research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, Microsoft also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world, including Canada, China, Czech Republic, India, Ireland, Israel, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world. Microsoft generally fund research at the corporate level to ensure that Microsoft are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. Microsoft also fund research and development activities at the operating segment level. Much of Microsoft's segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the Company.
In addition to Microsoft's main research and development operations, Microsoft also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest corporate research organizations and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science and a broad range of other disciplines, providing us a unique perspective on future trends and contributing to Microsoft's innovation.
Microsoft plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts.
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING.
Microsoft market and distribute Microsoft's products and services through the following channels: OEMs, direct, and distributors and resellers. Microsoft's sales force performs a variety of functions, including working directly with enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with Microsoft's customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for Microsoft's products and services.
OEMs.
Microsoft distribute Microsoft's products and services through OEMs that pre-install Microsoft's software on new devices and servers they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as Office and the capability to subscribe to Office 365.
PART I.
Item 1.
There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest category of OEMs are direct OEMs as Microsoft's relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. Microsoft have distribution agreements covering one or more of Microsoft's products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, Samsung,
Sharp,
Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs are system builders consisting of lower-volume PC manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft.
Direct.
Many organizations that license Microsoft's products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing Microsoft's products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel. A large network of partner advisors support many of these sales. .
Microsoft also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through Microsoft's digital marketplaces, online stores, and retail stores.
Distributors and Resellers.
Organizations also license Microsoft's products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (“LSP”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for Microsoft's other volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is Microsoft's main partner program for reselling cloud services.
Microsoft distribute Microsoft's retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets. Microsoft distribute Microsoft's devices through third-party retailers. Microsoft have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers, and provide product training and sales support.
Microsoft's Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services.
LICENSING OPTIONS.
Microsoft offer options for organizations that want to purchase Microsoft's cloud services, on-premises software, and Software Assurance. Microsoft license software to organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. Microsoft use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below.
SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period. It also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. SA is included with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others.
Volume Licensing Programs.
Enterprise Agreement.
Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement. Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software organization-wide over a three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is included.
PART I.
Item 1.
Microsoft Product and Services Agreement.
Microsoft Product and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses.
Open.
Open agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology. Open agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a one- to three-year period. Under the Open agreements, organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional. Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included.
Select Plus.
Select Plus agreements are designed for government and academic organizations to acquire on-premises licenses at any affiliate or department level, while realizing advantages as one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional. .
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement.
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The agreement allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services.
Partner Programs.
The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, hosting partner, or cloud reseller partner. Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions.
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on consumption.
The Independent Software Vendor Royalty program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users.
CUSTOMERS.
Microsoft's customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Microsoft's practice is to ship Microsoft's products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant.
PART I.
Item 1..